fix(triage): strengthen PR gate with batch detection, problem existence check, and red flag patterns (#5723)
QwenLM/qwen-code: .qwen/skills/triage/references/pr-workflow.md

| Stage 2 | Code review + test results (with screenshots) |
| Stage 3 | Reflection + verdict                          |

> **Terminal gate exception:** if any terminal exit triggers (Stage 0 core

Author: Declining this one — the proposed mechanism doesn't fit how terminal gates emit output.

Stage 0 / terminal gates post a PR **review** (`gh pr review --request-changes`), not an issue comment. The Comment Management table and its `PATCH /repos/$REPO/issues/comments/$ID` update-in-place pattern apply only to the three issue comments (Stages 1/2/3). A review can't be PATCHed the same way — reviews are superseded by the next review via GitHub's review-state machine, so "capture the comment ID and match the existing pattern" isn't mechanically applicable.

The stale-rejection-on-re-run case (author drops a 500+-line core PR below threshold on re-run) is rare and self-corrects: the re-run posts a fresh review that supersedes the old `CHANGES_REQUESTED`. The "Terminal gate exception" already constrains terminal gates to exactly one `CHANGES_REQUESTED` review. Adding tracking machinery for a rare edge — with a mechanism that doesn't actually apply to reviews — would be over-design.

<details><summary>中文</summary>

这条不采纳——提议的机制与终止门禁的输出方式不匹配。

Stage 0 / 终止门禁发的是 PR **review**（`gh pr review --request-changes`），不是 issue comment。Comment Management 表及其 `PATCH /repos/.../issues/comments/$ID` 原地更新模式只适用于三条 issue 评论（Stage 1/2/3）。review 没法这样 PATCH——它是靠 GitHub 的 review 状态机被后续 review 取代，所以"捕获 comment ID、套用现有模式"在机制上根本用不上。

重跑残留旧拒绝的场景（作者把 500+ 行核心 PR 在重跑时降到阈值以下）很罕见且会自愈：重跑会发一条新 review 取代旧的 `CHANGES_REQUESTED`。而且"Terminal gate exception"已限定终止门禁只发一条 `CHANGES_REQUESTED`。为一个罕见边角加跟踪机制、还用了对 review 不成立的机制，属于过度设计。

</details>

> **Terminal gate exception:** if any terminal exit triggers (Stage 0b hard

Reviewer: **[Critical]** This terminal gate now sends every terminal exit through a `CHANGES_REQUESTED` review, but `direction escalation` is explicitly a maintainer handoff in Stage 1c: it says to escalate and never auto-reject. With this wording, PRs touching auth/sandbox/model selection/telemetry/release/public contract can get a blocking review even though the prompt only meant to ask a maintainer to decide. It also leaves the Stage 1b no-reproduction response copy inside the Stage 1 issue-comment template while this paragraph forbids posting that comment. Split the exits by action: request changes for Stage 0b/1a/1b, and for direction escalation post or update a neutral maintainer-escalation comment or COMMENT review, then stop.

_— GPT-5 Codex via Qwen Code /review_

The gate's job is to **say no**. A gate that approves everything is not a gate — it is a rubber stamp. The default posture is skepticism, not welcome. Every PR must earn its way in; the burden of proof is on the author, not the reviewer.

This is especially critical for AI-bot-generated PRs. An AI bot can produce 20 plausible-sounding PRs in a day, each with perfect grammar and tests. Volume does not equal value. "Theoretically possible input" does not equal "real bug." The gate must distinguish **observed failures** from **theoretical hardening**, and treat them very differently.

If the gate feels uncomfortable — if it feels like you are being "too strict" — that is the gate working correctly. Being a pushover is not kindness; it is negligence.

### Stage 0: Batch Pattern Detection (run before Stage 1)

Before evaluating any PR individually, check for batch patterns:

```bash
gh pr list --repo "$REPO" --author "<author>" --state all --limit 20 \
  --json number,title,createdAt --jq '.[] | select(.createdAt > "7 days ago")'
```

If the same author has **3+ open PRs in 7 days** with similar patterns (e.g., multiple "add validation" / "reject X" / "require Y" PRs):

> - **Stop individual review.** Evaluate the batch as a group.

Author: Declined. This is not contradictory — it is a two-phase flow: (1) evaluate as a group first, (2) then selectively extract valuable ones. "Stop individual review" means "do not review individually before the batch judgment," not "never look at them individually." The current wording already reflects this order.

<details><summary>中文</summary>

不改。这不矛盾——是两阶段流程：(1) 先做 batch 级别判断，(2) 再挑选有价值的。"Stop individual review" 的意思是"在 batch 判断之前不要逐个审"，不是"永远不逐个看"。现有文字已经体现了这个顺序。

</details>

> - Ask: is this one consolidated change split into N PRs to inflate contribution metrics?

Author: Declined. The gate prompt is instructions for the triage agent — the agent posts a comment recommending close, but the actual `gh pr close` requires maintainer action. Adding an explicit "escalate to maintainer" at every close recommendation would bloat the prompt without changing the actual authority chain — the maintainer is always the final gate.

<details><summary>中文</summary>

不改。gate prompt 是给 triage agent 的指令——agent 发评论建议关闭，但实际 `gh pr close` 需要 maintainer 操作。在每个 close 建议处都加"escalate to maintainer"只会让 prompt 膨胀，不改变实际的权限链——maintainer 始终是最终 gate。

</details>

- If the batch is mostly noise (validation hygiene, schema alignment, theoretical hardening): close the entire batch with a single explanation, not N individual reviews.
- If a few PRs in the batch have genuine value: extract those, close the rest.

**Why this matters:** reviewing each PR individually makes every single one look "fine" — small change, has tests, follows template. The problem only appears at batch scale. The gate must zoom out before zooming in.

### Stage 1: Gate (Template + Direction + Solution Review)

> **⛔ Before anything else: create a worktree.** This is the #1 forgotten step.

Author: Declined. The heading is already long enough. Readers see the sub-stages (1a, 1b, 1c, 1d) when they open the section — the heading does not need to duplicate the table of contents.

<details><summary>中文</summary>

不改。标题已经够长了。读者打开章节自然看到 1a/1b/1c/1d 子阶段，标题不需要重复目录功能。

</details>

**Approval:** the `gh pr review --approve` command is a separate step that runs **after** Stage 3 comment is posted. Comment first, then approve only when genuinely confident.

### Gate Philosophy

Default posture: **skepticism**. Burden of proof is on the author. Distinguish **observed failures** (linked issue, reproduction, before/after) from **theoretical hardening** ("could theoretically send X" with no evidence it ever has). Volume ≠ value — an AI bot can produce 20 plausible PRs in a day. If being "too strict" feels uncomfortable, that is the gate working correctly.

### Stage 0b: Core Module Protection (two-tier check)

> Core infrastructure: files matching `packages/core/src/**`, `packages/*/src/auth/**`, `packages/*/src/providers/**`, `packages/*/src/models/**`, `packages/*/src/config/**`, `packages/*/src/tools/**`, `packages/*/src/services/**`, or cross-package changes spanning multiple `packages/*/`.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** These new core path globs only match directories directly under `packages/*/src`, but several protected areas live deeper, for example `packages/cli/src/serve/auth`, `packages/cli/src/ui/auth`, `packages/desktop/packages/shared/src/auth`, and `packages/vscode-ide-companion/src/webview/providers`. A large external change in those existing auth/provider paths would miss the Stage 0b hard block. The same list is mirrored in `AGENTS.md`, so both definitions need a broader pattern such as `packages/**/src/**/{auth,providers,models,config,tools,services}/**` or explicit nested paths.

_— GPT-5 Codex via Qwen Code /review_

> Core infrastructure: files matching `packages/core/src/**`, `packages/*/src/auth/**`, `packages/*/src/providers/**`, `packages/*/src/models/**`, `packages/*/src/config/**`, `packages/*/src/tools/**`, `packages/*/src/services/**`, or cross-package changes spanning multiple `packages/*/`.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** The glob patterns `packages/*/src/tools/**`, `packages/*/src/config/**`, `packages/*/src/services/**` (and similarly `auth`, `providers`, `models`) use a wildcard `*` that matches **every** package in the monorepo — desktop, sdk, vscode-ide-companion, cli, etc. — not just core. A tool added to `packages/desktop/src/tools/screenshot.ts` would be classified as "core infrastructure" and hard-blocked. Meanwhile, `packages/core/test/**` and `packages/core/scripts/**` are NOT covered, so a core test harness rewrite bypasses Stage 0b entirely.

```suggestion
Core infrastructure: files matching `packages/core/src/**`, `packages/core/test/**`, `packages/core/scripts/**`, or cross-package changes spanning multiple `packages/*/`.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> **Tier 1 — Large-scope changes to core → HARD BLOCK.** Applies to non-maintainer PRs only (skip this check if the author is a known maintainer). If the PR touches 10+ files or 500+ lines (additions + deletions combined) in core paths → reject immediately. No evaluation, no Stage 1.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `10+ files OR 500+ lines` has no per-file / net-line floor, so breadth alone trips the hard block regardless of risk. A uniform, low-risk change — renaming a symbol or updating an import path across 12 core files, a lint/format autofix, adding a missing null-guard at 12 call sites — touches 10+ core files while changing a line or two each, and gets hard-blocked ("No evaluation, no Stage 1") with a message telling the author to "open an issue to discuss the design." Meanwhile a genuinely risky deep 9-file rewrite stays under the threshold and flows into the lenient Tier 2 path. Breadth is treated as risk; depth is ignored.

Consider requiring **both** a file-count and a net-line threshold (e.g. 10+ files AND > N net lines), or routing the pure file-count trigger to escalation rather than an auto-reject.

_— claude-opus-4-8[1m] via Qwen Code /qreview_

Author: Good catch — adopted in bde5c1f. The hard block now fires on **size alone (500+ changed lines)**, dropping the `OR 10+ files` clause so breadth no longer auto-rejects. A deep rewrite concentrated in a few files still trips the 500-line floor, so depth is no longer ignored. Pure file-count breadth (a rename/import/lint sweep touching 10+ files with a tiny net diff) now routes to **maintainer escalation / Tier 2 judgement on the actual diff** instead of a wall. Mirrored the same wording in AGENTS.md so the two stay in sync.

<details><summary>中文</summary>

说得对，已在 bde5c1f 采纳。硬墙改为**只看净行数（500+ 行）**，去掉了 `或 10+ 文件` 这一条，广度不再触发自动拒绝；而集中在少数文件的深度重写仍会撞上 500 行门槛，深度不再被忽略。纯文件广度（重命名/改 import/lint 这类碰 10+ 文件但净改动很小的扫描式改动）现在走**升级给 maintainer / Tier 2 按真实 diff 判断**，而不是一堵墙。AGENTS.md 同步了相同措辞，两处保持一致。
</details>

> **Tier 1 — Large-scope changes to core → HARD BLOCK.** Applies to non-maintainer PRs only (skip this check if the author is a known maintainer). If the PR touches 10+ files or 500+ lines (additions + deletions combined) in core paths → reject immediately. No evaluation, no Stage 1.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** The new maintainer exemption says to skip the hard block if the author is a "known maintainer", but it never defines an authoritative check. A triage agent can end up relying on memory, PR text, labels, or author familiarity, which makes the hard block inconsistent and potentially bypassable. Please make the exemption deterministic, for example by reading the PR author and verifying `repos/$REPO/collaborators/$AUTHOR/permission`, then exempting only `admin`/`maintain`/`write` and failing closed or escalating if the API check fails.

_— GPT-5 Codex via Qwen Code /review_

> **Tier 1 — Large-scope changes to core → HARD BLOCK.** Applies to non-maintainer PRs only (skip this check if the author is a known maintainer). If the PR touches 10+ files or 500+ lines (additions + deletions combined) in core paths → reject immediately. No evaluation, no Stage 1.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** "Skip this check if the author is a known maintainer" — but no mechanism defines how to determine maintainer status. There is no `author_association` API query, no `$QWEN_MAINTAINER_HANDLE` check (used in Stage 3), and no collaborators endpoint call. The agent cannot execute this exemption without a determination method.

```suggestion
**Tier 1 — Large-scope changes to core → HARD BLOCK.** Applies to non-maintainer PRs only. Check maintainer status first:

\`\`\`bash
AUTHOR_ASSOC=$(gh pr view "$PR_NUMBER" --repo "$REPO" --json author_association --jq '.author_association')
# Skip Tier 1 if MEMBER, OWNER, or COLLABORATOR
\`\`\`

If the PR touches 10+ files or 500+ lines (additions + deletions combined) in core paths → reject immediately. No evaluation, no Stage 1.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

```bash

> gh pr review "$PR_NUMBER" --repo "$REPO" --request-changes --body "This change touches core infrastructure at scale. Core refactors must be maintainer-initiated — please open an issue to discuss the design first."

Reviewer: **[Critical]** The `gh pr review --body` here is the only terminal-exit command in the entire workflow that lacks a `<!-- qwen-triage stage=0b -->` HTML marker. Every other stage carries one (Stage 1: `<!-- qwen-triage stage=1 -->`, Stage 2: `stage=2`, Stage 3: `stage=3`). The re-run mechanism ("update each comment in place — Never create duplicates") depends on finding prior comments by marker. Without it, a second triage run cannot detect a prior Stage 0b block and may post a duplicate `CHANGES_REQUESTED` review.

```suggestion
gh pr review "$PR_NUMBER" --repo "$REPO" --request-changes --body "<!-- qwen-triage stage=0b -->
This change touches core infrastructure at scale. Core refactors must be maintainer-initiated — please open an issue to discuss the design first.

— _Qwen Code · qwen3.7-max_"
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

> ```

Reviewer: **[Critical]** The threshold is "10+ files or 500+ lines (additions + deletions combined) in core paths" but no `gh` command is provided to fetch the PR's file list and per-file statistics filtered to core paths. Every other mechanical check in this workflow provides an exact command (Stage 1a template check, Stage 3 guard, CHANGELOG lookup). Without a measurement command, the agent must improvise the file/line counting — the most error-prone part of the check.

```suggestion
**Tier 1 — Large-scope changes to core → HARD BLOCK.** Applies to non-maintainer PRs only (skip this check if the author is a known maintainer).

\`\`\`bash
CORE_STATS=$(gh pr view "$PR_NUMBER" --repo "$REPO" --json files \
  --jq '[.files[] | select(.path | test("packages/core/src/|packages/[^/]+/src/(auth|providers|models|config|tools|services)/"))] | {files: length, lines: ([.[].additions, .[].deletions] | add)}')
echo "$CORE_STATS" | jq -e '.files >= 10 or .lines >= 500'
\`\`\`

If the exit code is 0 (threshold met) → reject immediately. No evaluation, no Stage 1.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

### Stage 0: Core Module Protection (two-tier check)

Core infrastructure: files matching `packages/core/src/**`, `packages/*/src/auth/**`, `packages/*/src/providers/**`, `packages/*/src/models/**`, `packages/*/src/config/**`, `packages/*/src/tools/**`, `packages/*/src/services/**`, or cross-package changes spanning multiple `packages/*/`.

**Tier 1 — Large-scope changes to core → HARD BLOCK.** Applies to non-maintainer PRs only (skip this check if the author is a known maintainer). Hard-block on _size_, not breadth: if a core-path change totals **500+ lines** (additions + deletions combined) → reject immediately. No evaluation, no Stage 1.

```bash
gh pr review "$PR_NUMBER" --repo "$REPO" --request-changes --body "This change touches core infrastructure at scale. Core refactors must be maintainer-initiated — please open an issue to discuss the design first."
```

Then **stop**. This is a wall, not a guideline.

> **Breadth ≠ size.** A uniform, low-risk sweep — renaming a symbol, updating an import path, a lint/format autofix, the same null-guard at many call sites — can touch **10+ files** while changing only a line or two each. Don't auto-reject on file count alone: **escalate to the maintainer**, and otherwise let it proceed to Stage 1 under Tier 2's 100%-confidence bar, judged on the actual diff rather than the file count. (A deep rewrite concentrated in a few files still trips the 500-line threshold above, so depth isn't ignored.)

Author: Fixed in b1ded00. Reworded the breadth-sweep case (line 60) to **"flag it for the maintainer's awareness"**, so "escalate" now consistently means *stop / hand off* everywhere else (Tier 2 line 62, Stage 1b line 91). The two stop-cases already carry disambiguating clauses ("before proceeding" / "and stop"); this removes the single overloaded use of the verb.

<details>
<summary>中文说明</summary>

已在 b1ded00 修复。把广度扫描那一处（第 60 行）改成"**提请维护者知悉**"，这样其余地方的 "escalate" 就统一表示*停下 / 移交*（Tier 2 第 62 行、Stage 1b 第 91 行）。两处停下的用法本就带有消歧短语（"before proceeding" / "and stop"），这次去掉了动词唯一被重载的那一处。
</details>

gh pr review "$PR_NUMBER" --repo "$REPO" --request-changes --body-file /tmp/pr-gate-template.md
```

> **1b. Problem existence check (MANDATORY):**

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Stage 1b decides theoretical/no-reproduction fixes should request changes, but the workflow still makes the agent continue into direction review, the CHANGELOG lookup, and solution review before the terminal-exit list. That burns review/API time after the gate has already decided not to proceed; make the no-repro branch post/request changes and stop before 1c/1d.

_— GPT-5 Codex via Qwen Code /review_

gh pr review "$PR_NUMBER" --repo "$REPO" --request-changes --body-file /tmp/pr-gate-template.md
```

**1b. Problem existence check (MANDATORY):**

Before "is the direction right?", ask **"does this problem actually exist?"**

- **Observed bug** (linked issue, reproduction, before/after) → proceed.
- **Theoretical hardening** ("could theoretically send X" with no evidence) → **request changes.** Ask for a reproduction. If the author cannot provide one, close.
- **No reproduction = no fix.** A `fix:` PR without reproduction is a hypothesis — belongs in issues, not PRs.

> 

Reviewer: **[Critical]** Stage 1b runs before Stage 1c, so for a PR that touches a sensitive area (auth/sandbox/telemetry) AND has a theoretical problem statement, Stage 1b auto-triggers "request changes" before Stage 1c's "Escalate to maintainer (never auto-reject)" rule is ever evaluated. The sequential ordering means 1b's hard rule silently overrides 1c's escalation safeguard for sensitive-area PRs.

Consider adding a sensitive-area early-out to 1b:

```suggestion
- **Theoretical hardening** ("could theoretically send X" with no evidence) → **request changes.** Ask for a reproduction. If the author cannot provide one, close.
- **Exception: sensitive areas** (auth, sandbox, model selection, telemetry, release, public contract) → escalate to maintainer per 1c before applying the reproduction requirement.
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

gh pr review "$PR_NUMBER" --repo "$REPO" --request-changes --body-file /tmp/pr-gate-template.md
```

**1b. Problem existence check (MANDATORY):**

Before "is the direction right?", ask **"does this problem actually exist?"**

> 

Author: Thanks — thoughtful point, but declining this one. The premise (the gate "evaluates its own dismantling using the modified criteria") doesn't actually hold:

1. The operative rules come from the SKILL/AGENTS content **loaded into the agent's context** (the current `main` version), not from the PR worktree it reads as data. A PR proposing a weaker gate is still judged under today's strict rules.
2. Approval ≠ merge. Triage changes still need a human to click merge — nothing self-merges.
3. It guards an unobserved scenario — which is exactly the "theoretical hardening without reproduction" that this PR's own Stage 1b says doesn't warrant a change. Adding a hard block here would contradict the KISS thesis the PR is built on.

If we ever see a PR actually try to weaken the gate, that's the concrete signal to add a rule — not before.

<details><summary>中文</summary>

想法很好，但这条不采纳。它的前提（门禁"用被改后的标准评估自己的拆解"）其实不成立：

1. 真正生效的规则来自**加载进 agent 上下文**的 SKILL/AGENTS 内容（即当前 `main` 版本），而不是被当作数据读取的 PR worktree。提议削弱门禁的 PR 仍会按今天的严格规则被评判。
2. approve ≠ merge，triage 改动仍需人工点 merge，没有任何东西会自动合并。
3. 它防的是一个未观测到的场景——恰恰是本 PR 自己 Stage 1b 所说"无复现的理论性加固，不值得改"。在这里加硬阻断反而违背本 PR 的 KISS 主旨。

真出现试图削弱门禁的 PR，那才是加规则的具体信号——而不是提前臆测。

</details>

- **Observed bug** (linked issue, reproduction, before/after) → proceed.

> - **Theoretical hardening** ("could theoretically send X" with no evidence) → **request changes.** Ask for a reproduction. If the author cannot provide one on re-run, leave for maintainer to decide.

Author: Good catch — fixed. "Leave for maintainer to decide" was vague (no concrete action, no terminal-exit semantics). Replaced with the same escalation vocabulary used in Stage 1c / Stage 3:

> If the author cannot provide one on re-run, escalate to the maintainer (use `$QWEN_MAINTAINER_HANDLE` if set) and stop — do not proceed to Stage 2.

I deliberately did **not** add a first-run/re-run detection mechanism — the doc already handles re-runs via update-in-place comments, so the agent knows it's a re-run from its prior comment. Adding a separate detector would be over-engineering.

<details><summary>中文</summary>

说得对，已修。"leave for maintainer to decide" 太含糊（没有具体动作、没有终止语义）。已替换为 Stage 1c / Stage 3 同款的升级措辞：复现仍拿不出 → 升级给 maintainer（有 `$QWEN_MAINTAINER_HANDLE` 则用）并停止，不进入 Stage 2。

刻意**没有**加 first-run/re-run 检测机制——文档已通过"原地更新评论"处理重跑，agent 凭自己之前的评论即可判断是重跑，再加检测器属于过度设计。

</details>

> - **Theoretical hardening** ("could theoretically send X" with no evidence) → **request changes.** Ask for a reproduction. If the author cannot provide one on re-run, escalate to the maintainer (use `$QWEN_MAINTAINER_HANDLE` if set) and stop — do not proceed to Stage 2.

Author: Not adopting this — keeping `$QWEN_MAINTAINER_HANDLE if set`. The proposed fallback `gh api repos/$REPO/collaborators --jq '.[0].login'` @mentions an *arbitrary first collaborator*, which is worse than no mention: it can ping the wrong person on every escalation. The `if set` convention is already used consistently across the file (Stage 3 lines 295/309), and when the handle is unset the escalation still surfaces in the review/comment itself. A hard-coded arbitrary-collaborator ping isn't an improvement, so this stays as-is (KISS).

<details>
<summary>中文说明</summary>

不采纳，保留 `$QWEN_MAINTAINER_HANDLE if set`。建议的兜底 `gh api repos/$REPO/collaborators --jq '.[0].login'` 会 @ 一个*任意的第一个协作者*，这比不 @ 更糟——每次升级都可能 ping 错人。`if set` 这个约定全文已一致使用（Stage 3 第 295/309 行），而且即使 handle 未设置，升级本身也会体现在 review/评论里。写死去 ping 任意协作者并非改进，故维持原样（KISS）。
</details>

gh pr review "$PR_NUMBER" --repo "$REPO" --request-changes --body-file /tmp/pr-gate-template.md
```

**1b. Problem existence check (MANDATORY — this is where most noise PRs get caught):**

Before asking "is the direction right?", ask **"does this problem actually exist?"**

- **Observed bug**: Is there a linked issue, user report, error log, or reproduction case? Does the PR show a before/after demonstrating the failure? → Legitimate fix, proceed.
- **Theoretical hardening**: "The model could theoretically send `maxConnections: 1.5`" or "this env var could contain a non-integer" — with no evidence it ever has? → **Default to close.** Ask: "What scenario triggers this? Show me the before/after." If the author cannot answer, the PR is solving a non-problem.

> - **No reproduction = no fix.** A `fix:` PR without a reproduction case is not a fix — it is a hypothesis. Hypotheses belong in issues, not PRs.

Author: Declined. Same reasoning as the Stage 0 escalation comment. "Default to close" means the agent requests reproduction from the author — it is not the agent executing `gh pr close`. PRs touching auth/sandbox/telemetry will naturally attract maintainer attention regardless of prompt carve-outs. Maintaining a list of sensitive-area exceptions creates a false sense of safety while eroding the gate's default posture.

<details><summary>中文</summary>

不改。和 Stage 0 的 escalation 评论同理。"Default to close" 是 agent 向作者要求 reproduction，不是 agent 执行 `gh pr close`。涉及 auth/sandbox/telemetry 的 PR 自然会吸引 maintainer 关注，不依赖 prompt 里的豁免清单。在 prompt 里维护敏感区域例外列表会制造虚假安全感，同时侵蚀 gate 的默认立场。

</details>

> The key distinction: **"direction is correct" ≠ "problem exists."** "Rejecting fractional values for integer parameters" sounds reasonable as a direction. But if no one has ever passed a fractional value, and the runtime coerces it correctly anyway, there is no bug to fix — only code hygiene to perform. Code hygiene does not warrant a standalone PR, let alone 20 in a single day.

Author: Declined. This prompt targets the high volume of low-quality AI bot PRs, where 99% are "theoretical hardening." Adding qualifiers for security/race-condition/performance creates a loophole that every bot will claim to fall under. The default stance must be strict. Legitimate security/race/perf fixes from human contributors will be recognized by maintainers outside this prompt flow.

<details><summary>中文</summary>

不改。这个 prompt 的目标受众是每天涌入的大量低质量 AI bot PR，其中 99% 是"理论性加固"。为安全/race condition/性能加 qualifier 等于给每个 bot 开了后门——它们都会声称自己属于这些类别。默认立场必须严格。真正来自人类贡献者的安全/race/perf 修复，maintainer 会在这个 prompt 流程之外识别出来。

</details>

Template looks good ✓

Problem: <state whether the problem is an observed bug with evidence, or theoretical hardening without reproduction. If no reproduction exists, say so plainly: "No before/after reproduction is provided. What scenario triggers this issue?">

Direction: <state your honest assessment — aligned and why, or concerns and why>. CHANGELOG <reference if found, or "no direct reference but the area is relevant">.

Approach: <state your honest assessment — the scope feels right / feels like it could be much simpler / here's what I'd consider cutting>. <If you see a simpler path, name it: "Have you considered just X? It might cover most of the use case with a fraction of the complexity."> <If the diff carries unrelated changes or drive-by refactors, name them and suggest splitting them out.>

<If passing:> Moving on to code review. 🔍

> <If problem does not exist:> Requesting changes — no demonstrated failure. Please provide a reproduction case to proceed.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** This `<If problem does not exist:>` branch lives inside the Stage 1 comment template, but the terminal gate exception (lines 22-26) explicitly says when Stage 1b triggers: "Do not also post or update a Stage 1 issue comment." So this branch is unreachable dead code — the comment it lives in will never be posted when the condition is true.

Additionally, Stage 1b has no dedicated `gh pr review --request-changes --body` command, unlike Stage 0b (line 55) and Stage 1a (line 81). The terminal exits list says "request changes in 1b" but provides no mechanism.

Suggested fix: remove this branch from the template and add a dedicated `gh pr review` command to Stage 1b, matching the pattern used by Stage 0b and 1a:

```suggestion
<If concerns:> Flagging these for discussion before diving deeper.
```

And in Stage 1b section, add:

```bash
gh pr review "$PR_NUMBER" --repo "$REPO" --request-changes --body "<!-- qwen-triage stage=1b -->
Requesting changes — no demonstrated failure. Please provide a reproduction case to proceed.

— _Qwen Code · qwen3.7-max_"
```

_— qwen3.7-max via Qwen Code /review_

Template looks good ✓

Problem: <state whether the problem is an observed bug with evidence, or theoretical hardening without reproduction. If no reproduction exists, say so plainly: "No before/after reproduction is provided. What scenario triggers this issue?">

Direction: <state your honest assessment — aligned and why, or concerns and why>. CHANGELOG <reference if found, or "no direct reference but the area is relevant">.

Approach: <state your honest assessment — the scope feels right / feels like it could be much simpler / here's what I'd consider cutting>. <If you see a simpler path, name it: "Have you considered just X? It might cover most of the use case with a fraction of the complexity."> <If the diff carries unrelated changes or drive-by refactors, name them and suggest splitting them out.>

<If passing:> Moving on to code review. 🔍

> <If problem does not exist:> Requesting changes — no demonstrated failure. Please provide a reproduction case to proceed.

Author: Fixed in b1ded00. Removed the `<If problem does not exist:>` branch from the Stage 1 comment template. "Problem does not exist" is a **terminal exit** (Stage 1b): per the terminal-gate exception it submits exactly one standalone `CHANGES_REQUESTED` review and must *not* post a Stage 1 comment. So that template branch was unreachable — dropping it removes the post-then-check contradiction entirely.

<details>
<summary>中文说明</summary>

已在 b1ded00 修复。删除了 Stage 1 评论模板里的 `<If problem does not exist:>` 分支。"问题不存在"属于**终止出口**（Stage 1b）：按终止门例外规则，它只提交一次独立的 `CHANGES_REQUESTED` review，不再发 Stage 1 评论。因此该模板分支本就不可达，删掉后先发后检查的矛盾也随之消失。
</details>

Template looks good ✓

Problem: <state whether the problem is an observed bug with evidence, or theoretical hardening without reproduction. If no reproduction exists, say so plainly: "No before/after reproduction is provided. What scenario triggers this issue?">

Direction: <state your honest assessment — aligned and why, or concerns and why>. CHANGELOG <reference if found, or "no direct reference but the area is relevant">.

Approach: <state your honest assessment — the scope feels right / feels like it could be much simpler / here's what I'd consider cutting>. <If you see a simpler path, name it: "Have you considered just X? It might cover most of the use case with a fraction of the complexity."> <If the diff carries unrelated changes or drive-by refactors, name them and suggest splitting them out.>

<If passing:> Moving on to code review. 🔍

> <If problem does not exist:> Closing — no demonstrated failure. Feel free to reopen with a reproduction case.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** This adds a new terminal exit ("Closing — no demonstrated failure"), but the control-flow note below (line 176: "If direction is escalated → stop here. Template failures already stopped in Stage 1a.") never lists this problem-doesn't-exist close exit, and no `gh pr close` command is given anywhere — unlike every other terminal action (template gate, approve, request-changes), which each have an explicit command. As written, after posting "Closing" the agent has no instruction to stop, so it falls through into Stage 2 (Review + Test) and Stage 3 on a PR it just told the author it was closing. This is separate from the already-flagged *policy* question of whether 1b should auto-close — it's the missing *stop* + missing *close mechanism*. Add a stop rule to the line-176 note and specify the close command, or state "comment only; leave the actual close to the maintainer."

<details><summary>中文</summary>

这里新增了一个终止出口（“Closing — no demonstrated failure”），但下面的流程控制说明（第 176 行：“If direction is escalated → stop here. Template failures already stopped in Stage 1a.”）从未列出“问题不存在”这个关闭出口，而且全文也没有给出 `gh pr close` 命令——而其他每个终止动作（模板 gate、approve、request-changes）都有明确命令。按现在的写法，agent 发完 “Closing” 后没有停止指令，于是会继续 fall through 到 Stage 2（Review + Test）和 Stage 3，在一个它刚告诉作者要关闭的 PR 上继续跑。这与已被标记的“1b 是否应该自动关闭”的*策略*问题不同——这里说的是缺少*停止指令* + 缺少*关闭机制*。建议在第 176 行的说明里加一条停止规则，并指定关闭命令，或写明“只评论，实际关闭交给 maintainer”。

</details>

_— claude-opus-4-8 via Claude Code /qreview_

模板完整 ✓

问题：<说明问题是已观测到的 bug（有证据）还是理论性加固（无复现）。如果没有复现，直接说明："未提供 before/after 复现。什么场景会触发这个问题？">

方向：<直接说判断——对齐的原因/担心的原因>。

方案：<范围合理 / 感觉可以大幅简化 / 建议砍掉的部分>。<如果看到更简路径，点名：有没有考虑过直接 X？可能用很小的复杂度覆盖大部分场景。><如果 diff 夹带了无关改动或顺手重构，点名并建议拆成单独 PR。>

<如果通过：> 进入代码审查 🔍
<如果问题不存在：> 请求修改——未展示实际故障。请提供复现案例后继续。
<如果有顾虑：> 先提出来讨论，再深入看代码。

</details>

— _Qwen Code · qwen3.7-max_
```

Save this comment's ID. Terminal exits — stop here if any applies:

> - Core module hard block (Stage 0) → rejected, do not proceed.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** This "stop here if any applies" list sits **after** the unconditional "Post a single Stage 1 comment" (line 124), yet its first two entries name exits that terminate *before* any Stage 1 comment exists: the Stage 0 hard block stops at line 58 ("a wall, not a guideline") and the Stage 1a template failure stops at line 78. For exactly those exits, the gate exception (line 25) says "Do not also post or update a Stage 1 issue comment."

So if the agent treats this list as the authoritative terminal checkpoint (the imperative phrasing invites that), on a Stage 0 / Stage 1a exit it will post the Stage 1 comment at line 124 and *then* stop — violating the gate exception.

The Stage 0 / 1a rows are still useful as an out-of-order safeguard, so rather than dropping them, consider relabeling this block as a recap and noting that Stage 0 and Stage 1a stop earlier (before any Stage 1 comment), leaving 1b/1c as the live post-comment checks here.

_— claude-opus-4-8[1m] via Qwen Code /qreview_

模板完整 ✓

问题：<说明问题是已观测到的 bug（有证据）还是理论性加固（无复现）。如果没有复现，直接说明："未提供 before/after 复现。什么场景会触发这个问题？">

方向：<直接说判断——对齐的原因/担心的原因>。

方案：<范围合理 / 感觉可以大幅简化 / 建议砍掉的部分>。<如果看到更简路径，点名：有没有考虑过直接 X？可能用很小的复杂度覆盖大部分场景。><如果 diff 夹带了无关改动或顺手重构，点名并建议拆成单独 PR。>

<如果通过：> 进入代码审查 🔍
<如果问题不存在：> 请求修改——未展示实际故障。请提供复现案例后继续。
<如果有顾虑：> 先提出来讨论，再深入看代码。

</details>

— _Qwen Code · qwen3.7-max_
```

> Save this comment's ID. Terminal exits — stop here if any applies:

Author: Not adopting this. The breadth-only sweep is **not** a terminal exit — line 60 explicitly says it "let[s] it proceed to Stage 1 under Tier 2's 100%-confidence bar". This list is titled *"Terminal exits — stop here if any applies"*, so adding a "proceed to Stage 1" item to a stop-here list would be self-contradictory. The four listed cases are exactly the ones that stop; the breadth sweep continues, so it correctly does not appear here.

<details>
<summary>中文说明</summary>

不采纳。广度扫描**不是**终止出口——第 60 行明确写着它"proceed to Stage 1 under Tier 2's 100%-confidence bar（进入 Stage 1，按 Tier 2 的 100% 置信门槛评估）"。这个列表标题是*"Terminal exits — stop here（终止出口，命中即停）"*，往"停下"的列表里塞一个"继续进入 Stage 1"的条目本身就自相矛盾。列出的四项正是会停下的情形；广度扫描是继续的，因此正确地不出现在这里。
</details>

- After seeing it run, do the results match what the PR promised?
- If I had to maintain this in six months, would I curse the author or thank them?
- Am I approving this because it's genuinely good, or because I ran out of reasons to say no?
- **Did I verify the problem actually exists?** Or did I accept the PR's framing ("this value could be passed") without asking "has this ever happened?" If the PR has no before/after reproduction, I should not be this far in the pipeline.

> - **Is this part of a batch?** If the same author has 10+ similar PRs, am I evaluating each one on merit, or am I being worn down by volume? Step back: would I have accepted this as a single consolidated PR? If not, the batch is noise.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Threshold mismatch for the same "batch" concept: Stage 0 triggers batch handling at **3+** open PRs (line 59), but this Stage 3 reflection uses **10+**. An author with 4–9 similar PRs gets batch-closed by Stage 0 yet judged "not a batch" here — contradictory guidance for the same volume. Align the two numbers, or phrase this as "if this PR met the Stage 0 batch threshold".

<details><summary>中文</summary>

同一“批量”概念有两个阈值：Stage 0 在 **3+** 个 open PR 时触发批量处理（第 59 行），而这里 Stage 3 的反思用的是 **10+**。某作者有 4–9 个相似 PR 时，会被 Stage 0 批量关闭，却在这里被判定为“不算批量”——同样的数量得到了矛盾的指导。建议统一两处数字，或改写为“如果这个 PR 达到了 Stage 0 的批量阈值”。

</details>

_— claude-opus-4-8 via Claude Code /qreview_
